## Tell me about yourself

I studied engineering in Argentina. I started my career working at a company called Nimble LA in Los Angeles, California. I started as a front end developer, part of a team where I had a tech lead and a couple of coworkers in Argentina and part of the team also in Los Angeles. The projects were mainly for startups, so it was a very fast paced environment. I learned a lot about how to find very cost efficient solutions and how to essentially validate ideas in early stages, as quick as possible. The focus of the company was to try to help small companies or clients validate their ideas or try to scale up some of our projects.

For example, one of the last projects that I was working on was called UpdateAI. At that point, I was already working outside of the team as an independent contributor, directly with the client. I was trusted to lead the front end for this application. It was during COVID time. It was a project where we had to integrate a plugin into Zoom, so it would work as an integration in Zoom's marketplace. We would listen to the conversation in real time with a socket, and all those streams of audio would go to our back end where we saved those chunks and analyzed them so that we could get an AI summary of the meeting, some talking points, some insights, and some action items from the meeting agenda. It was an experience where I learned a lot about new technologies like Electron. I was part of the discussions with the Zoom team because these extensions for their platform were in beta, so we were among the first ones to integrate this kind of solutions. And overall, I learned a lot about AI as well because it was in very early stages of training an AI to do this kind of analysis.

I decided to continue my career at Gartner. It was a great way to learn about more mature processes and how to maintain and support big applications. I was a software engineer in the Gartner Digital Markets team. It's a project that is a software marketing platform. We had millions of users, so we had to be very careful about how to measure every feature that we wanted to release. My main role was as a front end engineer and I had huge learnings in this area — on how to handle SEO, Google positioning, organic traffic, SEM, marketing strategies, and A/B testing on how to release features without impacting production. It's a great experience, and it's actually the kind of work that I enjoy the most: working close to product, to design, to marketing, to find the best user experience. It's where I think I can have the most impact.

Unfortunately, GetApp was a bit deprioritized, so I was also part of other projects that were internal products. These had a very heavy component of back end and infrastructure technologies. For example, the last one I was working on was called CMS (Contact Management System). It was a platform that marketing pushed to have where we could unify all the users that came from all Gartner products or properties. We had four platforms that shared this kind of users and we wanted to unify them and create a centralized list so that the team could point their marketing campaigns towards those users.

It was a challenging effort for me to get used to such a different environment. There was little front end to be made, just a dashboard to be able to consult this information easily. But I had an amazing team and I can say that I learned a lot about back end and infrastructure. We were receiving the sign up or sign in events from the users through a Kafka stream that we consumed. Then, after the process of quarantining the emails and merging all the contacts, we exposed this information also to a Kafka topic. We had to be sure that we were not causing bottlenecks, and we did some performance and metric validations to see how much time we were taking to process each contact.

What I'm looking for is more of a front end position because it's where I think I can provide the most value, where I have my biggest expertise, and actually where I have the best time working. I'm also really excited to find projects that leverage this new AI era, to try to find quick wins or insights to enhance our products.

## Strong points and Weak points

If I had to choose some of my stronger points, I would say that working both in startups and in consolidated products has given me a lot of adaptability. I have learned how to work with very little resources and validate ideas very quickly. I know how to iterate quickly and how to work in more complex environments as well. At the same time, I also think that another strong point I have is that I'm very proactive. I like to spend some time every day to analyze the metrics of the product, the new technologies that we have, and try to enhance the products with quick wins or validate ideas quickly, collaborating with my team so that we can find the best user experience and have the quickest impact on the product.

Technically, one of my weaknesses is that I have not been as exposed to back end technologies. Since I've been very focused on front end skills, I've had little chance to work with some database tools or more advanced back end patterns. But I'm really keen to learn, and I've found that working closely with people who have been exposed to these tools in pair programming sessions has helped me a lot, especially in the times that I've needed to get deeper into these tools.

Another one I might mention is that the other side of being proactive is that sometimes I get focused on certain details longer than I should. Sometimes I get caught up in my own research about the product or the metrics that I'm paying attention to. I think that maybe I could use some better time management skills. I try to timebox every day the amount of time that I spend on trying to find new things or researching, but overall I've found that spending a little time on this kind of exercises always ends up having a win in the long run.

## Mention one time you went beyond your role

There was a time when we were trying to do discovery sessions to see how we could improve the organic traffic. I volunteered to be part of some brainstorming sessions that took place in the office for a couple of days. We got together with people from the other domains under Gartner Digital Markets to learn from each other and see what kind of ideas they were applying. As a result, after these sessions and collaborating across product, marketing, SEO, and design teams, we ended up implementing in GetApp some AI summary insights to provide the user with curated summaries made with AI from the user reviews that we already had in place.

## One technical problem you solved

I usually take some time to be proactive and find issues in our product. One of those times, I came across that we were paying very little attention to accessibility. At the same time, there was a European guideline that was coming out to be mandatory in a couple of months. I presented this to my manager, and he authorized me — even though we didn't have the timeline or the priority to give to this idea — to spend some time at least analyzing the state of the project. Fortunately, we already had a tool that could do some metrics around this. So I set up a weekly report on the pages that had the most traffic for us, and I analyzed four groups of pages with the threshold of the minimum metrics that we needed to consider for WCAG 2.1. I found out that we had a lot of issues to cover. With that report in mind, my manager let me do some more work on this. Essentially, I was lucky to be able to have some time from other teams like product and design that helped me fix some colors, fix some accessibility issues related to fonts, and even though it was not originally a priority or something that was in the roadmap, I think that this problem was something that needed to be addressed. There was a lot of refactoring that needed to be done, but fortunately most components were isolated and reusable. So for example, just fixing the alt text in the image component that we were using everywhere would have a big impact. A couple of tickets were easy to address in that scenario, but there were other things that needed to be discussed first with SEO, product, and design. For example, the colors that didn't have the correct contrast ratio needed to be validated with them. The fonts needed to be validated, and some of these things could have an impact on SEO because of the semantic HTML. So I needed to go through a more detailed process in some aspects. But we managed to do this in time, and I was actually the only one involved from the team. So in a couple of months, without any prioritization, I got from the measurement all the way to the minimal threshold to be compliant with the legislation.

## A technical decision you do not agree with

GetApp had integrated GTM (Google Tag Manager) in a way that it would inject some scripts for very specific purposes. Some teams had marketing forms, test scripts that were being injected into our product's different layouts in order for them to test things in marketing. We had some scripts for analytics, and a lot of scripts for other things like cookies and such. The experience we had with all of that was very painful. I did not agree with having those scripts injected and handled by other teams. I'd rather have control on our side for those kinds of things because the experience we had was that all those injected scripts were blocking our main thread and giving us a lot of delays in performance. At the same time, it was very painful to try to understand if we could delay those scripts or if they were necessary or not. If you opened the GTM manager, it was very confusing to see what kind of things you could do or not. I would argue that a better way would be that our team had the full ownership of the project, including these scripts, and potentially we could have set them in a worker near the edge so that they did whatever they needed to do independently, but under our control.

Another discussion we had technically was about migrating from Material UI components to something that worked better for our use case. We had a specific design system created and maintained by a designer, so we had a template with design tokens to follow. There was a developer pushing to use Tailwind CSS, and the arguments were that it was quick, very performant, the CSS output was very low, and it was easy to use — everybody would understand it since it was just classes, and we could customize the theme for our use case. In my opinion, I think we made the right call not to use Tailwind, because it would have blown up our server-side rendered HTML with all the classes needed to make it responsive and adapt to our design. I think Tailwind is a great tool when you don't have a designer and you need to have a quick launch. That was not our use case. We didn't need to move quickly. We needed to slowly migrate some components to something more stable and very custom, and at the same time we needed to follow very strict design tokens. What worked out best for us in the end was to move to just Sass modules. It was very performant, the HTML was really clean, and all the repeated classes that could have been generated as CSS — we could split the CSS into chunks or do some tree shaking. It worked amazingly, and it was a lot easier to migrate the Material UI components to our custom implementation.

## Questions for the interviewer

I've been working in a lot of different teams and in very different environments, from startups to mature companies, as I mentioned. I've found that I work better in an environment where people are very kind, open to feedback, and not really so opinionated — especially programmers — around the technology that we may want to use. They are open to having proof of concepts with different technologies or different ideas on how to address a problem. I like to have people around me that I can learn from, the kind of mentors. At the same time, I've been in some stressful or rushing environments where the deadlines are very tight, and that causes a lot of friction between different teams. So with all that in mind, I'm looking for that kind of company culture where we can rely on each other. Basically, do you think that this company or these teams would be a good fit for me? Do they fit that description?

Let's say that you decide to hire me and one year from now I would probably have some feedback, a performance review, or some kind of metrics that I would have to accomplish. What kind of things would you consider that would measure my growth in this role?

How are you using AI internally? Are you using it for coding purposes, for productivity? Do you think you are close to using it to enhance the product somehow?
